okay the way that I laid my tubing in
the ground is I would never recommend
anybody oh okay it's a it's like
excavating a swimming pool we had piles
of dirt everywhere and it's in work
it costs a lot more to pay an excavator
to remove all the dirt versus a little
bit of a girl so what I recommend people
do is is to take a four foot wide trench
eight feet deep going deep is still
important
you take it my trencher an excavator
maybe an hour hour and have to do that
and then they're gone we pay them
they're out of there right then or you
can have them help you backfill at any
rate you're removing a fraction maybe an
eighth or tenth of what you'd be
removing if you hope
so you learn that from doing it right so
what was your aha moment that made you
say I'm not doing it like this again
just because of the amount of time or
because the amount of work or all those
things but I found that if this very
little for example you can use six inch
tubing is that a four inch tubing but
the return on investment doesn't justify
the 50% increase in cost
can you go below four inch tubing you
could but you'd have to have a lot more
tubing okay I could have used galvanized
steel here but the turn for an on
investment isn't just doesn't justify
the cost for me
so they return the investment to dig out
the whole area isn't as good return on
investment as simply digging a four foot
wide trench 8pp
four foot by whatever long you want to
make it okay so this is 20 no this is
how long is this one forty feet so so
four by forty by eight four feet wide
eight feet deep by how long however long
you want to make so if I wanted to make
one of these like yours and follow your
plan so I didn't have to guess on
anything you're saying four by forty by
eight no I thought I'm sorry okay tell
me again okay so the you needed vary in
this particular case I have seventy-two
hundred cubic 7,200 cubic feet of air up
space okay
I need ten percent of that in tubing
that all has to fit under grandpa Tony
and Tony
so whatever however long you want to
make it it's all has to fit under grant
okay so that's what's when you determine
the link okay so in this case if I were
going to be putting that tubing inside
the screen house I would dig it 40 feet
long I would take my four five four
pipes of tubing lay them out on the lawn
put chicken wire for Commission beneath
them and tie those tubing's end to the
pole to mesh so they don't move that way
they're properly spaced 12 inches on
center then I walk over here and I
simply drop it into the eight-foot hole
so I don't have to walk and get down
into an eight-foot deep trench which is
dangerous
I've got my tubes sticking out of the
ground here so now I've got 40 times
four I've got 160 feet of tubing
underground
I will then then take soil put about it
six inches as well call that tamp it
down in between the tubes compact that
and get the strength of the tubes fill
it up 18 inches and then roll another 40
foot length of tube over that which is
another 160 feet right okay so I started
at 8 feet then I my second layer is at
six and a half feet I tamp that down
like it did in the first layer at 18
inches so I'm 18 inches above the tubes
roll the tubes back over it now get
another 160 feet of tubing down there so
I've got three layers of 160 feet of
tubing that's how a mini layer or one of
the lengthens make sure you have at
least 10 percent of cubic space and then
you float up to the top and you know
okay
so as long as your tubing is still below
the frost line though cuz that's where
the cool air you only want to come up to
about 5 feet like if you want to come
you might even also it might be helpful
after the trench is dug to mark that 5
feet line to make sure you don't go
above it well no because math tells you
can start at 8 feet yet 18 inches you
had six and a half
you had 18 inches you got five feet okay
so all right then on the outside of that
starting at ground level I put four
inches of styrofoam on the outside to
stop that frost from coming in during
the winter
in the trench right on the outside of
the inside the trench on the outside
right I saw those panels in your garage
in a previous video okay right so you
basically lined the walls of the ditch
with that exactly
maybe there's up to a 20 degree
difference between the soil temperature
outside and the soil temperature home
that will help regulate that soil year
around the same time so that ice that I
see that you on your first layer of
tubing in the ground you had stakes in
the ground holding them in place I did
because I have the whole place Trench
doubt I wouldn't do that if I were doing
a four-foot wide trench because I'd have
to get down in the trench to do that
that's why I would play like chicken max
gotcha
I can't picture the chicken my chicken
mesh idea but I'll watch this video more
and I'll just lay the chicken mesh on
the ground okay lay four pipes of coop
or tubes for your four pipes on top of
that tie it on so it doesn't move and
the chicken mesh is only there so you
can just drop it in the trench and the
pipes all fall together oh and you're
tight in place with zip ties or you know
anything okay all right okay that's how
I would do great
you